docs/design: add proposal for index advisor (#13271)
pingcap/tidb: docs/design/2019-11-05-index-advisor.md

## Proposal

### Design Overview

For problems like *what kind of indexes should be added to schema*, *how to value these hypothetic( potential / possible ) indexes based on execution plan and its cost*, they are handled by the top layer logic of index advisor. This logic involves three steps: (1) recommend indexes for single query; (2) calculate a score for each index and get an ordered score list descending with index's score; (3) Pick the top `n` indexes as the *initial recommended index set* and then launch the *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm. Following details the three steps:

1. **Potential indexes**. This proposal only considers single column indexes, thus all columns in a table can be potential indexes and column statistics is the corresponding index's statistics.

2. **Evaluate indexes**: 

>    - For each query, compile it and get the execution plan's cost denoted as `original_cost`. Then compile the same query again **with  all potential indexes added to schema**, extract selected indexes from output execution plan as `LSIs` (Local Selected Index) and corresponding cost denoted as `virtual_cost`. Calculate `reduced_cost = original_cost - virtual_cost`. 

Author: Yes, the logic is right.

   - Respectively add up `LSIs' reduced_cost` of each query in the workload. Denote the *sum* as `LSIs'` final scores.
   - Get the score list of `LSIs` descending with their corresponding score. 

3. **Evaluate index set**: 
   - Pick the top `n` indexes as the initial `recommend index set`. Denote the remaining unselected index set as `remaining index set.`

>    - Execute following *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm described as following. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Execute the following *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm. 
```

----------------------------------------------
### A quick exmaple for single-column index recommendation

**Workload**:

```
- Query1: SELECT COUNT(*) FROM t1 where a = 1 and b = 5
- Query2: SELECT a FROM t1 ORDER BY c limit 10 
- Query3: DELETE FROM t1 WHERE a = 1 AND d = 1
```
where index on column *c* has already existed. 

- **Step1**: recommend indexes for single query. For each query, compile it and get the `original_cost` output by SQL optimizer. Then add all possible hypothetic indexes *a, b, d* to the schema, compile the same query again. After the compiling, `LSIs` can be extracted from output execution plan as well as the `virtual_cost`. Denote `reduced_cost` as *original_cost - virtual_cost*. Assume this step outputs:

```
Query 1--LSIs: {a, b}, reduced_cost: 4
Query 2--LSIs: {c},    reduced_cost: 4
Query 3--LSIs: {a, d}, reduced_cost: 3
```

> - **Step2**: get the score list. Simply add up `LSIs`' `reduced_cost` of each query respectively and then sort the list descending by score. Assume this step outputs:

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by `'` here.
```suggestion
- **Step2**: get the score list. Simply add up `LSIs` and `reduced_cost` of each query respectively and then sort the list descending by score. Assume this step outputs:
```

```
a: 4+3=7
b: 4
c: 4
d: 3
```

> - **Step3**: evaluate recommend index set. Assume the number of allowed indexes recommended by index advisor is *2* and the swap size is *1* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Step3**: evaluate the recommended index set. Assume the number of allowed indexes recommended by index advisor is *2* and the swap size is *1* 
```

  - The initial `recommend index set` is `{a, b}`, the `remaining index set` is `{c,d}` 

>   - Add recommend index set `{a, b}` to the schema and at the same time mute existed index `c`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add recommended index set `{a, b}` to the schema and at the same time mute existed index `c`
```

  - Compile all queries in the workload and add up each query's cost. Assume the sum is *20* and then assign it variable `min_cost`

>   - Randomly exchange *1* element between the recommend set and remaining set. Assume *a* and *c* is chosen respectively, now the recommend set is `{c, b}` and the remaining set is `{a, d}`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Randomly exchange *1* element between the recommended set and remaining set. Assume *a* and *c* are chosen respectively, now the recommended set is `{c, b}` and the remaining set is `{a, d}`. 
```

Reviewer: `recommended` is a verb, so I'm afraid it's not appropriate for all `recommend (index) set` in this PR.

  - Apply recommend index set `{c, b}` to the workload and get a sum cost, say *18*. 

>   - As the cost decreased from *20* to *18*, update the recommend set from `{a, b}` to `{c, b}` and update `min_cost` to *18*. Then try swapping 1 element between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}` and execute the re-evaluate process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - As the cost decreases from *20* to *18*, update the recommend set from `{a, b}` to `{c, b}` and update `min_cost` to *18*. Then try swapping 1 element between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}` and execute the re-evaluate process. 
```

> Note that if the sum cost with `{c, b}` is *22* ( greater than 20 ), the next *swap* process should happen between `{a, b}` and `{c, d}` instead of between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}`. Loop the *Swap and Re-evaluate* process until timeout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if the sum cost with `{c, b}` is *22* (greater than 20), the next *swap* process should happen between `{a, b}` and `{c, d}` instead of between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}`. Loop the *Swap and Re-evaluate* process until timeout.
```

## Rational 

In this design, *index advisor* is implemented in a user friendly way, by adding a new SQL syntax `index advise...` instead of an independent third-party tool. However, for simplicity, syntax like `add virtual index...` which serves as building blocks of *index advisor* is not exposed. Therefore, if DBAs want some functionality like `add virtual index` or `alter invisible index`, they cannot benefit directly from current *index advisor* implementation. 

## Compatibility

No compatibility issues.

## Implementation

### <span id="compatibility">**Support from TiDB SQL optimizer** </span>

1. **add hypothetic indexes to schema** 
   - **effect**: query should be compiled with *schema* that contains input hypothetic indexes 

>    - **constraints**: these hypothetic indexes should take effects only within current index advisor session  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **constraints**: these hypothetic indexes should take effect only within the current index advisor session  
```

   - **implementation**: get a copy of *session schema* in memory. Then add hypothetic indexes to schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

2. **alter invisible indexes**

>    - **effect**: input existed indexes on table should be invisible to optimizer 

Reviewer: Confusing. Is `input` a  verb here? Please check.

```suggestion
   - **effect**: inputting existing indexes on the table should be invisible to optimizer 
```

>    - **constraints**: only within current index advisor session, input existed indexes are invisible to optimizer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **constraints**: only within current index advisor session, inputting existing indexes are invisible to optimizer 
```

Reviewer: Or do you mean `existing input indexes`?

Author: I want to express two staffs:
1. Users are asked to type in some `indexes`. These indexes are the `input` of index advisor.
2. And these indexes must already be `existing` on tables.

   - **implementation**: get a copy of *session schema* in memory. Then delete input indexes from schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

3. **extract LSIs and cost from execution plan**
   - **effect**: given the execution plan output by SQL optimizer, related indexes in this plan should be extracted as local selected indexes. Besides, best plan's `cost` should be returned to the top layer of index advisor that invokes TiDB's SQL optimizer.
   - **constraints**: no

>    - **implementation**: maybe rewrite the function `compiler.Compile` is a simpler way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **implementation**: maybe rewriting the function `compiler.Compile` is a simpler way
```

### **Implement top layer logic of index advisor**

Add a new SQL grammar for index advisor:

```
INDEX ADVISE
  [LOCAL]
  INFILE 'file_name'
  [MAX_MINUTES number]
  [MAX_IDXNUM
     [PER_TABLE number] 
     [PER_DB number]
  ]
  [LINES 
    [STARTING BY 'string'] 
    [TERMINATED BY 'string']
  ]
```

> Options in bracket `[]` is optional, while others are compulsory. The output of this grammar look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Options in bracket `[]` is optional, while others are compulsory. The output of this grammar looks like this:
```

# Proposal: Support automatically index recommendation

- Author(s): [Zou Huan](https://github.com/zouhuan1215) 
- Last updated:  Nov. 5, 2019
- Discussion at: 

## Abstract

> This proposal aims at designing a new DBA tool -- index advisor, which automatically recommends indexes for input workload. Having added these recommend indexes to tables, the overall execution time of input workload is supposed to decrease. Current proposal only considers single-column index recommendation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This proposal aims at designing a new DBA tool -- index advisor, which automatically recommends indexes for input workload. Having added these recommended indexes to tables, the overall execution time of input workload is supposed to decrease. Current proposal only considers single-column index recommendation.
```

## Background

Appropriate indexes can speed up query execution a lot. However, in real-world applications, determining proper indexes for a database according to a typical workload purely by hand, is an excessively challenging task. When deciding reasonable indexes for a large-scale database, this task becomes even more tough as one database may contain dozens of tables in which each table may have dozens of columns, whereas in the typical workload thousands of queries are involved in. Fortunately, we already have an excellent tool -- TiDB SQL optimizer that can be utilized to get through this tough task. The main purpose of this proposal is to utilize existing TiDB SQL optimizer to automatically recommend suitable indexes for database given the workload.

> To illustrate how can SQL optimizer help us determine suitable indexes, here is an intuitive example: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To illustrate how SQL optimizer can help us determine suitable indexes, here is an intuitive example: 
```

### A quick exmaple for single-column index recommendation

**Workload**:

```
- Query1: SELECT COUNT(*) FROM t1 where a = 1 and b = 5
- Query2: SELECT a FROM t1 ORDER BY c limit 10 
- Query3: DELETE FROM t1 WHERE a = 1 AND d = 1
```
where index on column *c* has already existed. 

- **Step1**: recommend indexes for single query. For each query, compile it and get the `original_cost` output by SQL optimizer. Then add all possible hypothetic indexes *a, b, d* to the schema, compile the same query again. After the compiling, `LSIs` can be extracted from output execution plan as well as the `virtual_cost`. Denote `reduced_cost` as *original_cost - virtual_cost*. Assume this step outputs:

```
Query 1--LSIs: {a, b}, reduced_cost: 4
Query 2--LSIs: {c},    reduced_cost: 4
Query 3--LSIs: {a, d}, reduced_cost: 3
```
- **Step2**: get the score list. Simply add up `LSIs`' `reduced_cost` of each query respectively and then sort the list descending by score. Assume this step outputs:

```
a: 4+3=7
b: 4
c: 4
d: 3
```

- **Step3**: evaluate recommend index set. Assume the number of allowed indexes recommended by index advisor is *2* and the swap size is *1* 

> - The initial `recommend index set` is `{a, b}`, the `remaining index set` is `{c,d}` 

Author: Yes, there should be more identations. I'll fix it.

- Add recommend index set `{a, b}` to the schema and at the same time mute existed index `c`
- Compile all queries in the workload and add up each query's cost. Assume the sum is *20* and then assign it variable `min_cost`
- Randomly exchange *1* element between the recommend set and remaining set. Assume *a* and *c* is chosen respectively, now the recommend set is `{c, b}` and the remaining set is `{a, d}`. 
- Apply recommend index set `{c, b}` to the workload and get a sum cost, say *18*. 
- As the cost decreased from *20* to *18*, update the recommend set from `{a, b}` to `{c, b}` and update `min_cost` to *18*. Then try swapping 1 element between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}` and execute the re-evaluate process. 

Note that if the sum cost with `{c, b}` is *22* ( greater than 20 ), the next *swap* process should happen between `{a, b}` and `{c, d}` instead of between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}`. Loop the *Swap and Re-evaluate* process until timeout.

> ## Rational 

Author: emmm... This part is supposed to involve things like if tidb should expose `add virtual index...`  syntax?

> ## Rational 

Reviewer 3: Yes, something like that.
```
A discussion of alternate approaches and the trade-offs, advantages, and disadvantages of the specified approach:
- How other systems solve the same issue?
- What other designs have been considered and what are their disadvantages?
- What is the advantage of this design compared with other designs?
- What is the disadvantage of this design?
- What is the impact of not doing this?
```
I think you can choose some problems from the list to answer **briefly**. There is no need to answer all of them.

> ## Rational 

Author: OK~

- Index advisor for PostgreSQL: [official page](https://www.enterprisedb.com/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.6/EDB_Postgres_Advanced_Server_Guide.1.55.html), [discussions on index advise tool](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CA%2BwPC0OG5Ww2TT1bVbm8B3jhj0yY3dxhmMeOt-EP1DttoXNJuw%40mail.gmail.com)

- [IBM-DB2 index advisor](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEPGG_10.1.0/com.ibm.db2.luw.admin.cmd.doc/doc/r0002452.html)

> ## Compatibility

Reviewer 3: Compatibility is some thing like 'Does this proposal make TiDB not compatible with the old versions?', now it looks like implementations.
You can just leave it as no compatibility issues.

Author: OK

> Above discussion highlights the fact that as a building block of index advisor, TiDB SQL  optimizer needs to provide following three functionalities for index advisor: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Above discussion highlights the fact that as a building block of index advisor, TiDB SQL optimizer needs to provide the following three functionalities for index advisor: 
```

1. **add hypothetic index**. That is, adding some *virtual indexes* to the schema in memory, which in the view of SQL optimizer, seems to be real indexes thus the optimizer will output execution plan with a vision that these virtual indexes do actually exist.  

2. **alter invisible index**. There are situations where some already existed indexes have little affect on given workload. At this time, we need to consider if these *outdated* indexes should be removed. Instead of deleting these indexes inconsiderately, we can make our decisions after observing the query efficiency with these indexes being muted. To achieve this, we could append a keyword *invisible* to target index's metadata in schema to mute it. 

3. **get plan and its cost**. Best physical plan and its cost output by SQL optimizer are essentials to index advisor to recommend indexes for given workload.  

## Implementation

### <span id="compatibility">**Support from TiDB SQL optimizer** </span>

1. **add hypothetic indexes to schema** 
   - **effect**: query should be compiled with *schema* that contains input hypothetic indexes 

>    - **requirements**: these hypothetic indexes should take effects only within current index advisor session  

Reviewer 2: Better to use `constraints` instead of `requirements`?

Author: Sure~

   - **implementation**: get a copy of *session schema* in memory. Then add hypothetic indexes to schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

2. **alter invisible indexes**
   - **effect**: input existed indexes on table should be invisible to optimizer 
   - **requirements**: only within current index advisor session, input existed indexes are invisible to optimizer 
   - **implementation**: get a copy of *session schema* in memory. Then delete input indexes from schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

3. **extract LSIs and cost from execution plan**
   - **effect**: given the execution plan output by SQL optimizer, related indexes in this plan should be extracted as local selected indexes. Besides, best plan's `cost` should be returned to the top layer of index advisor that invokes TiDB's SQL optimizer.
   - **requirements**: no
   - **implementation**: maybe rewrite the function `compiler.Compile` is a simpler way

### **Implement top layer logic of index advisor**

Add a new SQL grammar for index advisor:

```
INDEX ADVISE
  [LOCAL]

>   INFILE 'file_name'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 'file_name'
```

Author: I imitate this syntax from `local data`. Here is the reference [Mysql 5.7 load data](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/load-data.html)

Author: I decided to maintain this... It may be better to be in line with `LoadDataStmt`

  [MAX_MINUTES number]
  [MAX_IDXNUM
     [PER_TABLE number] 

>      [PER_DB number]

Reviewer 4: What does this field design for?

Author: Maximum allowed recommended indexes. Sometimes DBA doesn't want the number of indexes on specific table exceeds some number, while sometimes the sum of all tables in a database matters. This option provides flexibility for DBAs to consider index recommendation from either the view of each table or the whole database.

  ]

>   [LINES 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [DELIMITER
```

> # Proposal: Index Advisor

Reviewer 3: And we need to add a link in `README.md`.

> # Proposal: Index Advisor

Author: `Support automatically index recommendation` ?

- Author(s): [Zou Huan](https://github.com/zouhuan1215) 
- Last updated:  Nov. 5th, 2019
- Discussion at: 

## Abstract

This proposal aims at designing a new DBA tool -- index advisor, which automatically recommends indexes for input workload. Having added these recommend indexes to tables, the overall execution time of input workload is supposed to decrease. Current proposal only considers single-column index recommendation.

## Background

Appropriate indexes can speed up query execution a lot. However, in real-world applications, determining proper indexes for a database according to a typical workload purely by hand, is an excessively challenging task. When deciding reasonable indexes for a large-scale database, this task becomes even more tough as one database may contain dozens of tables in which each table may have dozens of columns, whereas in the typical workload thousands of queries are involved in. Fortunately, we already have an excellent tool -- TiDB SQL optimizer that can help us get through this tough task. The main purpose of this proposal is to utilize existing TiDB SQL optimizer to automatically recommend suitable indexes for database given the workload.

> To illustrate how can SQL optimizer help us determine suitable indexes, here is an intuitive example: 

Reviewer 3: `us` mean `index advisor` or users? Maybe you can make it more clear.

Author: *Fortunately, we already have an excellent tool -- TiDB SQL optimizer which can be utilized to get through this tough task*

> First assume that all indexes on table `persons` are available. Then comes a query like `SELECT name FROM persons WHERE age > 18`. When responding to this query, the SQL optimizer is more likely to output an execution plan which does *index_scan* upon column `age`. The point here is: **by observing the execution plan output by SQL optimizer, we will know which indexes are favored by input queries.** 

Reviewer 3: I don't understand what is the relationship between the point here and the question in previous line. Can you explain more in the docs?

Author: The point here is: by observing the execution plan output by SQL optimizer which requires index scan on *age*, we will know index on *age* is favored by current query. Thus, for current query, we will index on *age* instead of other columns such as *name, address, etc.*

> ## Proposal

Reviewer 3: It is better to first describe what you want to say first, so I can mentally prepare for it. Now the `Inpit & Output of Index Advsior` make me shocked and wondering what is it.

Author: How about deleting this `input & output` section? *Input* and *output* are mentioned in `Implementation` section, too.

Reviewer 3: OK.

### Input & Output of Index Advisor

The input of index advisor are: `workload`, `parameters`, `statistics`; the output are: `recommend index set`, ` both execution plans before and after adding recommended indexes`. Following shows the details:  

> > Input

Reviewer 3: It is not a good way to use `>` to start a sub part. I think `####` would do.

Author: OK. I'll fix it.

1. **Workload**

`workload` can be extracted from *slow_query.log*.

> 2. **Parameters** (OPTIONAL)

Reviewer 3: I guess it is outdated now according to our discussion. All paremeters are passed by sql.

Author: This *input* and *output* part is just for illustration purpose. Maybe we should delete it.

Reviewer 3: OK

Related parameters and their default values are:

- `database-name="test"`: the database for which index advisor recommend indexes
- `user="test"`: info required by logging in mysql client
- `password=""`: info required by logging in mysql client
- `workload=""`: according to which index advisor recommend indexes
- `max-exectime=0`: maximum running time of index advisor (unit: minute). Its default value is `0` which means no time constraints for running index advisor
- `max-index-num=10`: maximum number of indexes recommended by index advisor that is allowed to create 
- `max-idxcol=1`: maximum number of columns in recommended composite indexes. This proposal set `max-idxcol` as 1
- `sample-idxstats=false`: whether index advisor is allowed to sample some rows to obtain statistics of composite indexes

> 3. **Statistics** (OPTIONAL) 

Reviewer 3: And it is not needed since we decided to just do it inside tidb.

Author: Which one is unnecessary?

Reviewer 3: Statistics. It is not needed in the input session.

Performance of index advisor greatly depends on the accuracy of SQL optimizer's cost model. Statistics can facilitate SQL optimizer to make a better estimation of `execution time` based on `cost`, which in return improves the performance of index advisor. 

> > Output

Reviewer 3: Ditto.

1. **Recommend index set**

Given input workload, the final recommended indexes for each table. 

> 2. **Both execution plans of queries in the workload before and after adding recommended indexes** 

Reviewer 3: Not required in first version.

This output is mainly for debug purpose, as index advisor is based on underlying SQL optimizer which sometimes works extremely bad. 

----------------------------------------------

> ### Overview

Reviewer 3: Design overview?

> When recommending suitable indexes for input workload, we should be careful with two constraints: 

Reviewer 3: Mention another constraints that we can only create limited number of indices?

1. **Queries in workload cannot be executed**. Apparently, `execution_time` is the most convincing factor which can best explain the efficiency of certain indexes, but in real-world, we cannot afford the price for executing these queries again as executing these queries is slow and resource-intensive. Therefore, we work with `cost` instead to estimate the performance of indexes.

2. **Creating candidate indexes on the table is not allowed**. Creating indexes usually costs a lot, whereas, if the only desired item is `cost` provided by SQL optimizer instead of `execution_time`, we can play some tricks when *creating candidate indexes on tables*. That is, we add these candidate indexes only to the `schema` in memory, which will be accessed by SQL optimizer to produce an execution plan and output its `cost`. 

> > Compatibility with TiDB

Reviewer 3: Better put it after top layer logic of index advisor. So we can know why we need it.
And maybe we don't even need it and just explain in the `implementation` part.

Above discussion highlights the fact that as a building block of index advisor, TiDB SQL  optimizer needs to provide following three functionalities for index advisor: 

1. **add hypothetic index**. That is, adding some *virtual indexes* to the schema in memory, which in the view of SQL optimizer, seems to be real indexes thus the optimizer will output execution plan with a vision that these virtual indexes do actually exist.  

2. **alter invisible index**. There are situations where some already existed indexes have little affect on given workload. At this time, we need to consider if these *outdated* indexes should be removed. Instead of deleting these indexes inconsiderately, we can make our decisions after observing the query efficiency with these indexes being muted. To achieve this, we could append a keyword *invisible* to target index's metadata in schema to mute it. 

3. **get plan and its cost**. Best physical plan and its cost output by SQL optimizer are essentials to index advisor to recommend indexes for given workload.  

> Top Layer Logic of Index Advisor

> For problems like *what kind of indexes should be added to schema*, *how to value these hypothetic indexes based on execution plan and its cost*, they are handled by the top layer logic of index advisor. This logic involves three steps: (1) recommend indexes for single query; (2) calculate a score for each index and get an ordered score list descending with index's score; (3) Pick the top `n` indexes as the *initial recommended index set* and then launch the *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm. Following details the three steps:

Reviewer 3: Can you explain why we need `(3)` first?

1. **Potential indexes**. This proposal only considers single column indexes, thus all columns in a table can be potential indexes and column statistics is the corresponding index's statistics.

2. **Evaluate indexes**. For single query, the optimizer will output a physical plan and its corresponding cost. We can quantify the effect of certain hypothetic indexes by compiling a query twice. In the first time, this query is compiled without adding any hypothetic indexes to *schema*. Denote the output `cost` of SQL optimizer as `original_cost`.  While in the second time, compile the same query with all potential indexes being added to *schema*. Denote indexes appeared in output execution plan as `LSI (Local Selected Index)` for this query and `reduced_cost = original_cost - virtual_cost` as `LSI`'s score where `virtual_cost` is current execution plan's cost. Simply add up each LSI's score for different queries to get the LSI's final score. Sort LSIs' final score in descending order and get a score list.

> 3. **Evaluate index set**. Pick the top `n` indexes as the *initial recommended index set* and then launch the *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm. Note that executing the *Swap and Re-evaluate* algorithm is necessary as the `reduced_cost` of certain query may be **joint** effect of several indexes. Within this context, it is hard to independently estimate each index's contribution to the final `reduced_cost`. For example, assume there is an extremely slow query in input workload and the desired indexes for this query is `a` and `b`. However, the number of allowed recommended indexes for the whole workload is limited and for some reason, `a` ranks top `n` in the final score list while `b` is not. But there are chances that without `b`, `a` can no more optimize that extremely slow query. To tackle this problem, we have to *efficiently* enumerate possible optimal recommend index set for the workload. The difference from *random enumeration* is that we reasonably think the initial recommended index set composed of top `n` indexes in the score list is a *good start*. By swapping partial elements between the `recommend_set` and the `remaining_set`, we are trying *variates* of the *good start* recommend set in which we are more likely to get the real optimal recommend set as quickly as possible. The factor determining the quality of recommend index set is the overall cost of input workload after adding all indexes in recommend index set to the schema in memory. Following is snippets of pseudorandom code of `Swap and Re-evaluate` algorithm.  

Reviewer 3: Can you split it into smaller logical parts. It is so long and makes me lost...

Author: OK.

min_cost = EvaluateWorkload(workload, recommend_set)

for {
    v_recommend_set, v_remaining_set = SwapElements(recommend_set, remaining_set, swap_size)
    variant_cost = EvaluateWorkload(workload, v_recommend_set)
    if variant_cost < min_cost {
        min_cost = variant_cost
        recommend_set = v_recommend_set
        remaining_set = v_remaining_set
    }
    ......
    // loop until specific rounds or timeout, break
}
```
----------------------------------------------
### A quick exmaple for single-column index recommendation

**Workload**:

```
- Query1: SELECT COUNT(*) FROM t1 where a = 1 and b = 5
- Query2: SELECT a FROM t1 ORDER BY c limit 10 
- Query3: DELETE FROM t1 WHERE a = 1 AND d = 1
```
where index on column *c* has already existed. 

- **Step1**: recommend indexes for single query. For each query, compile it and get the `original_cost` output by SQL optimizer. Then add all possible hypothetic indexes *a, b, d* to the schema, compile the same query again. After the compiling, `LSIs` can be extracted from output execution plan as well as the `virtual_cost`. Denote `reduced_cost` as *original_cost - virtual_cost*. Assume this step outputs:

```

> Query 1--LSIs: {a, b}, reduced_cost: 4

Reviewer 3: Is it single column indices?

Author: Yes, two single column indices are recommended: *a* and *b*

Query 2--LSIs: {c},    reduced_cost: 4
Query 3--LSIs: {a, d}, reduced_cost: 3
```
- **Step2**: get the score list. Simply add up `LSIs`' `reduced_cost` of each query respectively and then sort the list descending by score. Assume this step outputs:

```
a: 4+3=7
b: 4
c: 4
d: 3
```

> - **Step3**: evaluate recommend index set. Assume the number of allowed indexes recommended by index advisor is 2. Thus we can get the initial recommend index set composed of the top 2 indexes that is `{a, b}`. Then we add `{a, b}` to the schema at the same time mute existed index `c`. Having done that, compile all queries in the workload and add up each query's cost. Assume the sum is *20* and then assign it variable `min_cost`. Assume the *swap_size* is 1, that is every time randomly exchange 1 element between the recommend set and remaining set. Here `{a, b}` is the recommend set, `{c,d}` is the remaining set. Assume *a* and *c* is chosen respectively in recommend set and the remaining set, that is, now the recommend set is `{c, b}` and the remaining set is `{a, d}`. Apply recommend set `{c, b}` to the workload and get a sum cost, say *18*. As the cost decreased from *20* to *18*, update the recommend set from `{a, b}` to `{c, b}`. Then try swapping 1 element between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}` and execute the re-evaluate process. Note that if the sum cost with `{c, b}` is *22* ( greater than 20 ) instead of *18*, the next *swap* process should happen between `{a, b}` and `{c, d}` instead of between `{c, b}` and `{a, d}`. Loop the *Swap and Re-evaluate* process until timeout.

Reviewer 3: Really recommend to split it into smaller parts...

Author: OK~

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

> ## Implementation

Reviewer 3: Better to add a simple line like `in order to..., we need to support...`.

> > Support from TiDB SQL optimizer

Reviewer 3: Ditto.

> 1. **add hypothetic indexes to schema**. 

Reviewer 3: We don't need the `.` at end of a sentence.

   - **effect**: query should be compiled with *schema* that contains input hypothetic indexes 
   - **requirements**: these hypothetic indexes should take effects only within current index advisor session  

>    - **implementation**: hack the memory and get a copy of *session schema*. Then add hypothetic indexes to schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

Reviewer 3: No need to use the word `hack`...

>    - **implementation**: hack the memory and get a copy of *session schema*. Then add hypothetic indexes to schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

Reviewer 3: And we need `.` at the end.

2. **mute existing indexes**.
   - **effect**: input existed indexes on table should be invisible to optimizer 
   - **requirements**: only within current index advisor session, input existed indexes are invisible to optimizer 

>    - **implementation**: hack the memory and get a copy of *session schema*. Then delete input indexes from schema copy and compile the query with this modified schema copy

Reviewer 3: No hack...

3. **extract LSIs and cost from execution plan**.
   - **effect**: given the execution plan output by SQL optimizer, related indexes in this plan should be extracted as local selected indexes. Besides, best plan's `cost` should be returned to the top layer of index advisor that invokes TiDB's SQL optimizer.
   - **requirements**: no
   - **implementation**: maybe rewrite the function `compiler.Compile` is a simpler way

> > Implement top layer logic of index advisor

Reviewer 3: Ditto.

Add a new SQL grammar for index advisor:

```
INDEX ADVISE
  [LOCAL]
  INFILE 'file_name'
  [MAX_MINUTES number]
  [MAX_IDXNUM
     [PER_TABLE number] 
     [PER_DB number]
  ]
  [LINES 
    [STARTING BY 'string'] 
    [TERMINATED BY 'string']
  ]
```
Options in bracket `[]` is optional, while others are compulsory. The output of this grammar look like this:

| Table          | Recommend index | Num of hit queries | Reduced_cost |
| :-----------:  | :-------------: | :----------------: | :----------: |
| employee       | age             | 6                  | 100          |
| employee       | position        | 2                  | 20           |
| department     | department_id   | 3                  | 60           |

> ---------------------------------

Reviewer 3: And we miss the part of Rationale, Compatibility, Open issues (if applicable) in a normal design docs.
